[integrity]Only about 5% of all people seem to understand how their identity is constructed. For most other people, there are deep issues about value and personal identity that they can never resolve if they disagree about them. In a "single shard" universe, you could have no intimate trust
The food seeking, sucking and swallowing behavior of newborns is entirely governed by reflexes. These reflexes stop as soon as the baby understands how to eat. I suspect that moral emotions are reflexes, too: they control our social behavior until we have real understanding.Moral emotions are similar to feeling guilty for eating a cookie. Once you have a certain level of adult self awareness you don’t need guilt to abstain from eating the cookies that make your world worse.
The question is not whether you deduce the Categorical Imperative from the constraints set by your desired aesthetics or not. What's relevant is that your ethics are contingent on your own integrity and rationality, not on the approval of the highest ranks of the ingroup.
Yes. Suffering results from a lack of internal integrity; all pain signals are generated by your own nervous system, and made relevant by your own mind.
Seriously, there is only true and false, no right and wrong. Describing reality as a gradient towards what it should be does not just fuck up your epistemology but also your self regulation.
Good/bad give rise to a system of meaning that most people find more powerful and convincing than true/false.
Personal growth seems to require to out-model your current behavioral regulation and thus gain agency via establishing higher layers of regulation. Maturation implies understanding one's own mechanisms.
I used to think that agency has passed from individuals to scalable organizations at some point in history, but now I think that individuals are organizations too (just more or less effective and scalable ones).。。。Our self is not a representation of a biological organism, but of all sorts of regulation targets and models, many of which are related to relationships, families, economic and social structure. We are identified with what we attempt to regulate.
Our self is all sorts of regulation targets and models
Personal growth seems to require to out-model your current behavioral regulation and thus gain agency via establishing higher layers of regulation.
You basically exist in the same way as a character in a multi media novel. The novel is written by the brain. The content is exactly the one that is authored into your self-report.
There is a version of you that transcends pain, fear and hope, and is only moved by your recognition of your place in the universe. There is a version of you that is so clean that it is not moved by anything, beyond attending to structure. Beyond that, you do not exist.
You will not create an approximate copy of yourself but spread yourself into a new, more powerful substrate. You will probably be able and perhaps willing to shut down your biological brain in the same way as you can shut your eyes when you get input from superior senses
One of the most liberating realizations after the construction of the full self is that suffering is a representation, like a sound etched on a record, or an inscription in a book, and you are free to interpret it in any way you want, by gaining agency over what you care about
You do not have physical identity, because you exist within a software running on your brain, and software does not have identity. Software is a principle, not a thing.
The minds of most people are subjugated by cults because individual human brains are very bad at even simple proofs. Our societies are essentially run by mind viruses that evolved due to poor mental integrity, with our firewalls mostly checking for signatures of competing viruses

[communication]This is an important insight wrt everyday psychology: most people don't actually try to understand (identify causal structure) each other, but remain at the level of classification. Pushing AI models of human psychology towards causal structure is going to be enlightening
Understanding something means to model it. Understanding someone means to model how he/she models something. An agent only has agency to the degree that it is able to model itself, and loses agency in the eyes of other agents to the degree that they can out-model it.
The idea of interacting with others without fear is not tempting you? I think that this may open the way to deep integrity. W

